Add tutorials/guides for integrating libraries with the Hub (#358)
huggingface/huggingface_hub: docs/hub/how-to-upstream.md

# How to integrate upstream methods in your library

Now that you've seen more downstream methods for downloading files, it is time to introduce you to additional *upstream* methods. Upstream methods refers to methods that publish files to the Hub from your library. This guide will show you how to:

* Use the `HfApi` class to manage a repository.
* Use the `Repository` class to handle files and version control a repository with Git-like commands.

## `HfApi`

The `HfApi` class is a high level class that wraps around HTTP requests. There are many useful tasks you can accomplish with the `HfApi` class including: 

> - List and filter models.

Reviewer: I think we can also get dataset information via `HfApi.list_datasets`
```suggestion
- List and filter models and datasets.
```

- Inspect model or dataset metadata.
- Delete a repository.
- Change the visibility of a repository.

### List and filter

It can be helpful for users to see a list of available models, and filter them according to a specific language or framework. This can be especially useful for library and organization owners who want to view all the models they own. Use the `list_models` function with the `filter` parameter to search for a model of interest:

```python
>>> from huggingface_hub import HfApi
>>> api = HfApi()

# List all models.
>>> api.list_models()

# List only text classification models.

> >>> api.list_models(filter="text-classification")

Reviewer: Would it be helpful to mention that these filters are also visible on the website (e.g. with a screenshot) so help guide the reader on what types of filters are possible?

<img width="374" alt="Screen Shot 2021-09-23 at 22 38 02" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/26859204/134580477-da70b994-02a6-4a96-a311-463a31794092.png">

# List only the models trained on the "common_voice" dataset.
>>> api.list_models(filter="dataset:common_voice")

# List only the models from the spaCy library.
>>> api.list_models(filter="spacy")
```

Explore available public datasets with `list_datasets`:

```python
>>> from huggingface_hub import HfApi
>>> api = HfApi()

# List only text classification datasets.
>>> api.list_datasets(filter="task_categories:text-classification")

# List only datasets in Russian for language modeling.
>>> api.list_datasets(filter=("languages:ru", "task_ids:language-modeling"))
```

### Inspect model or dataset metadata

Get important information about a model or dataset as shown in the following:

```python
>>> from huggingface_hub import HfApi
>>> api = HfApi()

# Get metadata of a single model.
>>> api.model_info("distilbert-base-uncased")

# Get metadata of a single dataset.
>>> api.dataset_info("glue")
```

### Delete a repository

Delete a repository with `delete_repo`. Make sure you are certain you want to delete a repository because this is an irreversible process!

1. Get your Hugging Face API token:

   ```python
   >>> from huggingface_hub import HfFolder

>    >>> folder = HfFolder()

Reviewer: Since we don't reuse `folder` in this snippet, we could save a line by doing `HfFolder().get_token()`

Author: Actually, I'll do `token = HfFolder().get_token()` since in the `create_repo` example since the next code snippet will use `token`.

   >>> token = folder.get_token()
   ```

2. Pass your token and the name of the repository to `delete_repo`:

   ```python

>    >>> api.delete_repo(token=YOUR_HF_API_TOKEN, name=REPO_NAME)

Reviewer: Suggestion for consistency with other snippets (unless this is by design to avoid copy-paste disasters 😅)
```suggestion
   >>> from huggingface_hub import HfApi
   >>> api = HfApi()
   >>> api.delete_repo(token=YOUR_HF_API_TOKEN, name=REPO_NAME)
```

Reviewer: A similar comment applies to the code snippets below - feel free to ignore if that's by design!

   ```

> Delete a dataset repository by adding the `type` parameter:

Reviewer: Should we mention what the most common types are?

Author: If the only types are `dataset` and `spaces` as shown [here](https://github.com/huggingface/huggingface_hub/blob/e665982eacf9b8b05115d324ba1202c7d542fcbf/src/huggingface_hub/constants.py#L34), then I don't think we need to mention it since Spaces isn't quite open to everyone yet :)

```python
>>> api.delete_repo(token=YOUR_HF_API_TOKEN, name=REPO_NAME, type="dataset")
```

### Change repository visibility

A repository can be public or private. A private repository is only visible to you or members of your organization. Change a repository to private as shown in the following:

```python
>>> api.update_repo_visibility(token=YOUR_HF_API_TOKEN, name=REPO_NAME, private=True)
```

## `Repository` 

The `Repository` class allows you to push models or other repositories to the Hub. `Repository` is a wrapper over Git and Git-LFS methods, so make sure you have Git-LFS installed (see [here](https://git-lfs.github.com/) for installation instructions) and set up before you begin. If you are already familiar with common Git commands, then the `Repository` class should feel familiar. 

### Clone a repository

> The `clone_from` parameter clones a repository from a Hugging Face model ID:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `clone_from` parameter clones a repository from a Hugging Face model ID to a directory specified by the `local_dir` argument:
```

...   "my-dataset", 
...   clone_from="<user>/<dataset_id>", 
...   use_auth_token=True, 
...   repo_type="dataset",
...   git_user="MyName",
...   git_email="me@cool.mail"
... )
```

### Branch

Switch between branches with `git_checkout`. For example, if you want to switch from `branch1` to `branch2`:

```python
>>> repo = Repository(local_dir="huggingface-hub", clone_from="<user>/<dataset_id>", revision='branch1')
>>> repo.git_checkout("branch2")
```

### Pull

Update a current local branch with `git_pull`:

```python
>>> repo.git_pull()
```

Set `rebase=True` if you want your local commits to occur after your branch is updated with the new commits from the remote:

```python
>>> repo.git_pull(rebase=True)
```

### `commit` context manager

The `commit` context manager is a simple utility that handles four of the most common Git commands: pull, add, commit, and push. Any files that are larger than 10MB are automatically tracked with `git-lfs`. In the following example, the `commit` context manager:

1. Pulls from the `text-files` repository.
2. Adds a change made to `file.txt`.
3. Commits the change.
4. Pushes the change to the `text-files` repository.

```python

> >>> with Repository(local_dir="text-files", clone_from="<user>/text-files").commit(commit_message="My first file :)"):

Reviewer: This is such a cool feature!

# How to integrate upstream methods in your library

Now that you've seen more downstream methods for downloading files, it is time to introduce you to additional *upstream* methods. Upstream methods refers to functions that publish files to the Hub from your library. This guide will show you how to:

* Use the `HfApi` class to manage a repository.
* Use the `Repository` class to manage a repository with Git-like commands.

> ## `HfApi`

Reviewer 2: Great, clear, and concise explanations!

> The `HfApi` class is a low level class that wraps around HTTP requests. There are many useful tasks you can accomplish with the `HfApi` class including: 

Reviewer 2: nit: I think it's high level actually

- List and filter models.
- Inspect model or dataset metadata.
- Delete a repository.
- Change the visibility of a repository.

### List and filter

> It can be helpful for users to see a list of available models, and filter those models according to a specific language or framework. Use the `list_models` function with the `filter` parameter to search for a model of interest:

Reviewer 2: Maybe this is a good place to mention that if you're an owner of a library or organization, you can use this to get all your library models. Maybe even throw a link to https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/endpoints#webhook in here

Author: Good call! This will explicitly show how library and organization owners can get value out of `list_models`. I'm not too sure how the webhook is related to listing and filtering models though. 😅 Is it just so owners can be alerted when a model is added to their library/org?

>>> from huggingface_hub import HfApi
>>> api = HfApi()

# List all models.
>>> api.list_models()

# List only text classification models.
>>> api.list_models(filter="text-classification")

# List only Russian models compatible with PyTorch.
>>> api.list_models(filter=("ru", "pytorch"))

# List only the models trained on the "common_voice" dataset.
>>> api.list_models(filter="dataset:common_voice")

# List only the models from the spaCy library.
>>> api.list_models(filter="spacy")
```

Explore available public datasets with `list_datasets`:

```python
>>> from huggingface_hub import HfApi
>>> api = HfApi()

# List only text classification datasets.
>>> api.list_datasets(filter="task_categories:text-classification")

# List only datasets in Russian for language modeling.
>>> api.list_datasets(filter=("languages:ru", "task_ids:language-modeling"))
```

### Inspect model or dataset metadata

Get important information about a model or dataset as shown in the following:

```python
>>> from huggingface_hub import HfApi
>>> api = HfApi()

# Get metadata of a single model.
>>> api.model_info("distilbert-base-uncased")

# Get metadata of a single dataset.
>>> api.dataset_info("glue")
```

> ### Delete a repository

Reviewer 2: This section is great. I think we should have a section for `create_repo` as well

Author: In the tutorial (`tutorial-add-library`), I have a section for `create_repo`. I didn't introduce `delete_repo` in the tutorial because it seems like more like a repo management tool. But let me know if you think it'd make more sense to include `delete_repo` in the tutorial!

Reviewer: I think it is quite intuitive to have `create_repo` and `delete_repo` side-by-side, so would also favour linking them

1. Get your Hugging Face API token:

```python
>>> from huggingface_hub import HfFolder
>>> folder = HfFolder()
>>> token = folder.get_token()
```

2. Give `delete_repo` your token and the name of the repository to delete:

```python
>>> api.delete_repo(token=YOUR_HF_API_TOKEN name=REPO_NAME)
```

Delete a dataset repository by adding the `type` parameter:

```python
>>> api.create_repo(token=YOUR_HF_API_TOKEN, name=REPO_NAME, type="dataset")
```

### Change repository visibility

A repository can be public or private. A private repository is only visible to you or members of your organization. Change a repository to private as shown in the following:

```python
>>> api.update_repo_visibility(token=YOUR_HF_API_TOKEN, name=REPO_NAME, private=True)
```

## `Repository` 

The `Repository` class allows you to push models or other repositories to the Hub. `Repository` is a wrapper over Git and Git-LFS methods, so make sure you have Git-LFS installed (see [here](https://git-lfs.github.com/) for more instructions) and set up before you begin. If you are already familiar with common Git commands, then the `Repository` class should feel familiar. 

> Start by instantiating a `Repository` object with a path to a local Git clone or repository:

Reviewer 2: This is not necessarily needed to begin with. You can either:

* Begin by instantiating from a local git clone
* Begin by git cloning as shown in "Clone a repository"

Maybe we should have a header "Using a local clone"? I think the use case is a bit less frequent so we probably want to have "clone a repository" first

```python
>>> from huggingface_hub import Repository
>>> repo = Repository(local_dir="<path>/<to>/<folder>")
```

### Clone a repository

The `clone_from` parameter clones a repository from a specified directory using a URL (if you are working offline, this parameter should be `None`):

```python
>>> repo = Repository(local_dir="huggingface-hub", clone_from="https://github.com/huggingface/huggingface_hub")
```

> This parameter can also clone a repository from a Hugging Face model ID:

Reviewer 2: I think we should put this use case first

```python
>>> repo = Repository(local_dir="w2v2", clone_from="facebook/wav2vec2-large-960h-lv60")

> ```

Author: Hmm I have `create_repo` in the tutorial, and I'm not sure we need to explicitly link these two functions together.

> ```

Reviewer 2: It's not needed to have the two together, but I think this flow is the most common one and showing it here would likely avoid confusions

> If you want to commit or push to a cloned repository that belongs to you or your organizations:

Reviewer 2: This could likely be its own section since it's not abut cloning repositories. Maybe let's just add a header here

1. Log in to your Hugging Face account with the following command:

   ```bash
   huggingface-cli login
   ```

2. Instantiate your `Repository` class with the parameter `use_auth_token=True`:
   
   ```python
   >>> repo = Repository(local_dir="my-model", clone_from="<user>/<model_id>", use_auth_token=True)
   ```

You can also attribute a Git username and email to a cloned repository by specifiying the `git_user` and `git_email` parameters. When users commit to that repository, Git will be aware of the commit author.

```python
>>> repo = Repository(
...   "my-dataset", 
...   clone_from="<user>/<dataset_id>", 
...   use_auth_token=True, 
...   repo_type="dataset",
...   git_user="MyName",
...   git_email="me@cool.mail"
... )
```

### Branch

Switch between branches with `git_checkout`. For example, if you want to switch from `branch1` to `branch2`:

```python
>>> repo = Repository(local_dir="huggingface-hub", clone_from="<user>/<dataset_id>", revision='branch1')
>>> repo.git_checkout("branch2")
```

> ### Add

Reviewer 2: To be honest I've never seen people using the add, push and commit methods. People usually use the `push_to_hub` wrapper method. I would probably bias towards simplifying our documentation, but maybe there are use cases I'm missing. WDYT @LysandreJik ?

Reviewer 3: I agree with you, and highlighted something along those lines in my review as well: https://github.com/huggingface/huggingface_hub/pull/358#discussion_r713492640

Author: I think if no one is really using the individual `git_add`, `git_push`, and `git_commit` functions then I'll take them out, especially if the `push_to_hub` and `commit` context manager handles these. I will highlight the `commit` context manager first since it is more intuitive, and clarify that `push_to_hub` requires two extra steps first (pull, and save).

# How to integrate upstream methods in your library

Now that you've seen more downstream methods for downloading files, it is time to introduce you to additional *upstream* methods. Upstream methods refers to functions that publish files to the Hub from your library. This guide will show you how to:

> * Use the `HfApi` class to manage a repository.
> * Use the `Repository` class to manage a repository with Git-like commands.

Reviewer 3: These two bullet points are clashing a bit, it looks like `Repository` is a different approach to what `HfApi` is already doing.
How about the following (feel free to adapt the wording):
```suggestion
* Use the `HfApi` class to manage a repository.
* Use the `Repository` class to handle files and version control of your repositories using git-like commands.
```

Author: I agree, this is a more precise description of `Repository` :)

### Clone a repository

The `clone_from` parameter clones a repository from a Hugging Face model ID:

```python
>>> repo = Repository(local_dir="w2v2", clone_from="facebook/wav2vec2-large-960h-lv60")
```

This parameter can also clone a repository from a specified directory using a URL (if you are working offline, this parameter should be `None`):

```python
>>> repo = Repository(local_dir="huggingface-hub", clone_from="https://github.com/huggingface/huggingface_hub")
```

### Using a local clone

Instantiate a `Repository` object with a path to a local Git clone or repository:

```python
>>> from huggingface_hub import Repository
>>> repo = Repository(local_dir="<path>/<to>/<folder>")
```

### Commit and push to cloned repository

If you want to commit or push to a cloned repository that belongs to you or your organizations:

1. Log in to your Hugging Face account with the following command:

   ```bash
   huggingface-cli login
   ```

2. Instantiate your `Repository` class with the parameter `use_auth_token=True`:
   
   ```python

>    >>> repo = Repository(local_dir="my-model", clone_from="<user>/<model_id>", use_auth_token=True)

Reviewer 3: The `use_auth_token` now defaults to `True`, so there's no need to set it here

   ```

You can also attribute a Git username and email to a cloned repository by specifiying the `git_user` and `git_email` parameters. When users commit to that repository, Git will be aware of the commit author.

```python
>>> repo = Repository(
...   "my-dataset", 
...   clone_from="<user>/<dataset_id>", 
...   use_auth_token=True, 
...   repo_type="dataset",
...   git_user="MyName",
...   git_email="me@cool.mail"
... )
```

### Branch

Switch between branches with `git_checkout`. For example, if you want to switch from `branch1` to `branch2`:

```python
>>> repo = Repository(local_dir="huggingface-hub", clone_from="<user>/<dataset_id>", revision='branch1')
>>> repo.git_checkout("branch2")
```

### Add

Add a file to commit with `git_add`:

```python
>>> repo = Repository(local_dir="huggingface-hub", clone_from="<user>/<dataset_id>")
>>> repo.git_add("my-awesome-file")
```

> This method has an `auto-lfs-track` parameter that can be set to `True` if you want to automatically track large files (>10MB):

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This method has an `auto_lfs_track` parameter that can be set to `True` if you want to automatically track large files (>10MB):
```

```python
>>> repo = Repository(local_dir="huggingface-hub", clone_from="<user>/<dataset_id>")
>>> repo.git_add("my-awesome-file", auto_lfs_track=True)
```

### Commit

Commit a file with `git_commit`:

```python
>>> repo = Repository(local_dir="huggingface-hub", clone_from="<user>/<dataset_id>")

> >>> repo.git_add(commit_message="Commit my-awesome-file to the Hub")

Reviewer 3: This should be `git_commit` - I don't know if putting the repository instantiation above is the best, as this wouldn't be a real-world scenario: the user would have to clone (first line), then save their files, `git_add` and finally `git_commit` (second line).

I would either remove the first line, or show a full example

Author: Removed the first line to better align with real-world scenario

```

### Pull

Update a current local branch with `git_pull`:

```python
>>> repo = Repository(local_dir="huggingface-hub", clone_from="<user>/<dataset_id>")

> >>> repo.git_pull()

Reviewer 3: Same here, if the repo was just cloned then there is no need to pull

```

Set `rebase=True` if you want your local commits to occur after your branch is updated with the new commits from the remote:

```python
>>> repo = Repository(local_dir="huggingface-hub", clone_from="<user>/<dataset_id>")

> >>> repo.git_pull(rebase=True)

Reviewer 3: Same here

```

### Push

Push all your local branch commits to the remote branch with `git_push`:

```python
>>> repo = Repository(local_dir="huggingface-hub", clone_from="<user>/<dataset_id>")

> >>> repo.git_push()

Reviewer 3: Same here

```

Change the `blocking` parameter to `False` if you would like to push your commits asynchronously. Non-blocking behavior is helpful when you want to continue running your script while you push your commits.

```python
>>> repo = Repository(local_dir="huggingface-hub", clone_from="<user>/<dataset_id>")

> >>> repo.git_push(blocking=False)

Reviewer 3: Same here

```

Check the status of your push with the `command_queue` property:

```python
>>> last_command = repo.command_queue[-1]
>>> last_command.status
# -> -1 indicates the push is ongoing.
# -> 0 indicates the push has completed successfully.
# -> Non-zero code indicates the error code if there was an error.
```

When `blocking=False`, commands are tracked and your script will only exit when all pushes are completed, even if other errors occur in your script. Some additional useful commands for checking the status of a push include:

```python
# Inspect an error.
>>> last_command.stderr

# Check whether a push is completed or ongoing.
>>> last_command.is_done

# Check whether a push command has errored.
>>> last_command.failed
```

### `push_to_hub`

For convenience, the `Repository` class also has a `push_to_hub` method that will add files to commit, commit the files, and push them to a repository:

```python
>>> repo = Repository(local_dir="huggingface-hub", clone_from="<user>/<dataset_id>")
>>> repo.push_to_hub(commit_message="Commit my-awesome-file to the Hub")

> ```

Reviewer 3: I think this entire part is great and goes in detail about possible methods - but it omits the `commit` context manager, which is arguably the simplest and less error-prone method. If one method was to be presented, I'd vote for the `commit` context manager above all as it does everything (pull, add, commit, push) and it's hard to mess up (contrary to the `push_to_hub` method, which is less intuitive imo, as it requires a pull first, then saving the files, then calling the method).

# How to integrate upstream methods in your library

> Now that you've seen more downstream utilities for downloading files, it is time to introduce you to additional *upstream* utilities. These are utilities that publish files to the Hub from your library. This guide will show you how to:

Reviewer 2: Again I would suggest to avoid assuming readers are using documentation linearly. If mentioning other sections, please link to it (such as downstream here)

* Use the `HfApi` class to manage a repository.
* Use the `Repository` class to handle files and version control a repository with Git-like commands.

## `HfApi`

The `HfApi` class is a high-level class that wraps around HTTP requests. There are many valuable tasks you can accomplish with the `HfApi` class, including: 

- List and filter models and datasets.
- Inspect model or dataset metadata.
- Delete a repository.
- Change the visibility of a repository.

### List and filter

> It can be helpful for users to see a list of available models and filter them according to a specific language or framework. This can be especially useful for library and organization owners who want to view all their models. Use the `list_models` function with the `filter` parameter to search for specific models.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It can be helpful for users to see a list of available models and filter them according to a specific language or library. This can be especially useful for library and organization owners who want to view all their models. Use the `list_models` function with the `filter` parameter to search for specific models.
```

> You can view all the available filters on the Hugging Face Hub website.

Reviewer 2: When making a clear distinction between subsections of the Hub, I think it's ok to refer to it as model or dataset Hub

```suggestion
You can view all the available filters on the left of the [model Hub](http://hf.co/models).
```

Author: Good idea, we should include this in our style guide 👍

![/docs/assets/hub/hub_filters.png](/docs/assets/hub/hub_filters.png)

```python
>>> from huggingface_hub import HfApi
>>> api = HfApi()

# List all models.
>>> api.list_models()

# List only text classification models.
>>> api.list_models(filter="text-classification")

# List only Russian models compatible with PyTorch.
>>> api.list_models(filter=("ru", "pytorch"))

# List only the models trained on the "common_voice" dataset.
>>> api.list_models(filter="dataset:common_voice")

# List only the models from the spaCy library.
>>> api.list_models(filter="spacy")
```

Explore available public datasets with `list_datasets`:

```python
>>> from huggingface_hub import HfApi
>>> api = HfApi()

> # List only text classification datasets.

Reviewer 2: Do we have documentation somewhere for `task_categories` and `task_ids`?

Author: I was only able to find dataset `task_categories` [here](https://github.com/huggingface/huggingface_hub/blob/379414dade73e0816a996d83ead7e4ffd6986a53/docs/hub/datasets-tags.md), but the links are broken. Couldn't really find anything for `task_ids` except for the example [here](https://github.com/huggingface/huggingface_hub/blob/8e2b37c830d43ad3d81b866f2dc3c7778a6da358/src/huggingface_hub/hf_api.py#L463).

>>> api.list_datasets(filter="task_categories:text-classification")

# List only datasets in Russian for language modeling.
>>> api.list_datasets(filter=("languages:ru", "task_ids:language-modeling"))
```

### Inspect model or dataset metadata

> Get important information about a model or dataset as shown in the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Get important information about a model or dataset as shown below:
```
maybe?

```python
>>> from huggingface_hub import HfApi
>>> api = HfApi()

# Get metadata of a single model.
>>> api.model_info("distilbert-base-uncased")

# Get metadata of a single dataset.
>>> api.dataset_info("glue")
```

### Create a repository

Create a repository with `create_repo` and give it a name with the `name` parameter:

1. Get your Hugging Face API token:

   ```python
   >>> from huggingface_hub import HfFolder
   >>> token = HfFolder().get_token()
   ```
2. Use `create_repo` to create your repository:

   ```python
   >>> from huggingface_hub import HfApi
   >>> api = HfApi()
   >>> api.create_repo(token=token, name="test-model")
   'https://huggingface.co/lysandre/test-model'
   ```

### Delete a repository

Delete a repository with `delete_repo`. Make sure you are certain you want to delete a repository because this is an irreversible process!

Pass your token and the name of the repository to `delete_repo`:

```python
>>> from huggingface_hub import HfApi
>>> api = HfApi()

> >>> api.delete_repo(token=token, name=REPO_NAME)

Reviewer: Would it make sense to explain that `REPO_NAME` is the full repository ID of `{username_or_org}/{repo_name}` and that you can get the full string using `HfAPI().get_full_repo_name(repo_name)`?

Author: Yes, I thought the `REPO_NAME` was just the repository name. Didn't realize it also includes the username or organization. Thanks for clarifying!

```

Delete a dataset repository by adding the `repo_type` parameter:

```python
>>> api.delete_repo(token=token, name=REPO_NAME, repo_type="dataset")
```

### Change repository visibility

> A repository can be public or private. A private repository is only visible to you or members of your organization. Change a repository to private as shown in the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A repository can be public or private. A private repository is only visible to you or members of the organization in which the repository is located. Change a repository to private as shown in the following:
```

```python
>>> from huggingface_hub import HfApi
>>> api = HfApi()
>>> api.update_repo_visibility(token=token, name=REPO_NAME, private=True)
```

## `Repository` 

> The `Repository` class allows you to push models or other repositories to the Hub. `Repository` is a wrapper over Git and Git-LFS methods, so make sure you have Git-LFS installed (see [here](https://git-lfs.github.com/) for installation instructions) and set up before you begin. The `Repository` class should feel familiar if you are already familiar with common Git commands. 

Reviewer 2: I think I asked this before, but not sure. @LysandreJik do we already install git-lfs automatically when people pip install huggingface_hub?

The `clone_from` parameter clones a repository from a Hugging Face model ID to a directory specified by the `local_dir` argument:

```python
>>> repo = Repository(local_dir="w2v2", clone_from="facebook/wav2vec2-large-960h-lv60")
```

`clone_from` can also clone a repository from a specified directory using a URL (if you are working offline, this parameter should be `None`):

```python
>>> repo = Repository(local_dir="huggingface-hub", clone_from="https://github.com/huggingface/huggingface_hub")
```

Easily combine the `clone_from` parameter with `create_repo` to create and clone a repository:

```python
>>> repo_url = HfApi().create_repo(name="repo_name")
>>> repo = Repository(local_dir="repo_local_path", clone_from=repo_url)
```

### Using a local clone

Instantiate a `Repository` object with a path to a local Git clone or repository:

```python
>>> from huggingface_hub import Repository
>>> repo = Repository(local_dir="<path>/<to>/<folder>")
```

### Commit and push to a cloned repository

If you want to commit or push to a cloned repository that belongs to you or your organizations:

1. Log in to your Hugging Face account with the following command:

   ```bash

>    huggingface-cli login

Reviewer: Perhaps it would be useful for Jupyter notebook users to know about `notebook_login()` here? A common pattern would be to try running:

```
!huggingface-cli login
```

but that won't work in Jupyter notebooks. You can display the widget as follows:

```python
from huggingface_hub import notebook_login

notebook_login()
```

Author: Wow, that's really cool! I didn't know this was possible. Added a step for using `notebook_login`.
